_drafts/2016-09-30-top-picks-2016-september.md, before:

---
title: Top picks — 2016 September
excerpt: Staying up to date in web industry is a difficult and time consuming task. I would like to share with you my top finds from the past month.
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## The Case for Custom Elements

[https://medium.com/dev-channel/the-case-for-custom-elements-part-1-65d807b4b439](https://medium.com/dev-channel/the-case-for-custom-elements-part-1-65d807b4b439)

Great intro followed by [another part](https://medium.com/dev-channel/the-case-for-custom-elements-part-2-2efe42ce9133) about native Cusom Elements. Rob Dodson did a great jon explaining the concept and practical use case of new API that is coming to out browsers soon.

- - -

## The inaccessible web: how we got into this mess

[https://uxdesign.cc/the-inaccessible-web-how-we-got-into-this-mess-7cd3460b8e32](https://uxdesign.cc/the-inaccessible-web-how-we-got-into-this-mess-7cd3460b8e32)

A mandatory read for teachers, content writers, designers, developers, digital product managers and also clients. Don't be lazy. Read it and make the web a better place. Thanks for write up [Mischa Andrews](https://twitter.com/MischaAndrews).

- - -

## Why there is no CSS4 - explaining CSS Levels

[https://www.rachelandrew.co.uk/archives/2016/09/13/why-there-is-no-css4-explaining-css-levels/](https://www.rachelandrew.co.uk/archives/2016/09/13/why-there-is-no-css4-explaining-css-levels/)

Levels in CSS explained. Thanks Rachel!

- - -

## Angular 2

[http://angularjs.blogspot.co.uk/2016/09/angular2-final.html](http://angularjs.blogspot.co.uk/2016/09/angular2-final.html)

After 6 years of releasing initial version of Angular, we finally got a second version of one of the most popular JavaScript framework on the world. Improved performance, modularity and support for desktop and mobile devices are main features. Documentations looks amazing!

- - -

## A whole new GitHub Universe: announcing new tools, forums, and features

[https://github.com/blog/2256-a-whole-new-github-universe-announcing-new-tools-forums-and-features](https://github.com/blog/2256-a-whole-new-github-universe-announcing-new-tools-forums-and-features)

The biggest update to Github platform yet. Projects allows to easily organise issues, pull requests and notes directly from repository. New ways or code reviews finally looks like it should ages ago. New profile view, brand new API to integrate your tool with Github and much more...

- - -

## Homebrew 1.0.0

[http://brew.sh/2016/09/21/homebrew-1.0.0/](http://brew.sh/2016/09/21/homebrew-1.0.0/)

Finally, after 7 years of development Homebrew (the missing package manager for mac OS users) hit the stable 1.0.0 version.

- - -

## A cartoon guide to Flux

[https://code-cartoons.com/a-cartoon-guide-to-flux-6157355ab207](https://code-cartoons.com/a-cartoon-guide-to-flux-6157355ab207)

Have you ever wondering what the whole buzz about Flux is, what it does, how does it work? Thats probably the easier to digest guide around the web. Thanks [Lin Clark](https://twitter.com/linclark) for a great write / draw up.

- - -

## A cartoon guide to Redux

[https://code-cartoons.com/a-cartoon-intro-to-redux-3afb775501a6](https://code-cartoons.com/a-cartoon-intro-to-redux-3afb775501a6)

Same for Redux...

- - -

##

Commit message:

Add Philips Walton article about pollyfils to top picks

_drafts/2016-09-30-top-picks-2016-september.md, after:

---
title: Top picks — 2016 September
excerpt: Staying up to date in web industry is a difficult and time consuming task. I would like to share with you my top finds from the past month.
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## The Case for Custom Elements

[https://medium.com/dev-channel/the-case-for-custom-elements-part-1-65d807b4b439](https://medium.com/dev-channel/the-case-for-custom-elements-part-1-65d807b4b439)

Great intro followed by [another part](https://medium.com/dev-channel/the-case-for-custom-elements-part-2-2efe42ce9133) about native Cusom Elements. Rob Dodson did a great jon explaining the concept and practical use case of new API that is coming to out browsers soon.

- - -

## The inaccessible web: how we got into this mess

[https://uxdesign.cc/the-inaccessible-web-how-we-got-into-this-mess-7cd3460b8e32](https://uxdesign.cc/the-inaccessible-web-how-we-got-into-this-mess-7cd3460b8e32)

A mandatory read for teachers, content writers, designers, developers, digital product managers and also clients. Don't be lazy. Read it and make the web a better place. Thanks for write up [Mischa Andrews](https://twitter.com/MischaAndrews).

- - -

## Why there is no CSS4 - explaining CSS Levels

[https://www.rachelandrew.co.uk/archives/2016/09/13/why-there-is-no-css4-explaining-css-levels/](https://www.rachelandrew.co.uk/archives/2016/09/13/why-there-is-no-css4-explaining-css-levels/)

Levels in CSS explained. Thanks Rachel!

- - -

## Angular 2

[http://angularjs.blogspot.co.uk/2016/09/angular2-final.html](http://angularjs.blogspot.co.uk/2016/09/angular2-final.html)

After 6 years of releasing initial version of Angular, we finally got a second version of one of the most popular JavaScript framework on the world. Improved performance, modularity and support for desktop and mobile devices are main features. Documentations looks amazing!

- - -

## A whole new GitHub Universe: announcing new tools, forums, and features

[https://github.com/blog/2256-a-whole-new-github-universe-announcing-new-tools-forums-and-features](https://github.com/blog/2256-a-whole-new-github-universe-announcing-new-tools-forums-and-features)

The biggest update to Github platform yet. Projects allows to easily organise issues, pull requests and notes directly from repository. New ways or code reviews finally looks like it should ages ago. New profile view, brand new API to integrate your tool with Github and much more...

- - -

## Homebrew 1.0.0

[http://brew.sh/2016/09/21/homebrew-1.0.0/](http://brew.sh/2016/09/21/homebrew-1.0.0/)

Finally, after 7 years of development Homebrew (the missing package manager for mac OS users) hit the stable 1.0.0 version.

- - -

## A cartoon guide to Flux

[https://code-cartoons.com/a-cartoon-guide-to-flux-6157355ab207](https://code-cartoons.com/a-cartoon-guide-to-flux-6157355ab207)

Have you ever wondering what the whole buzz about Flux is, what it does, how does it work? That is probably the easier to digest guide around the web. Thanks [Lin Clark](https://twitter.com/linclark) for a great write / draw up. Next one about [Redux](https://code-cartoons.com/a-cartoon-intro-to-redux-3afb775501a6) is equally cool!

- - -

## Loading Polyfills Only When Needed

[https://philipwalton.com/articles/loading-polyfills-only-when-needed/?utm_source=codropscollective](https://philipwalton.com/articles/loading-polyfills-only-when-needed/?utm_source=codropscollective)

Philip Walton about loading polyfills in the most convenient way for users of the most recent browsers and the most optimal for browsers that partially support required set of features. Great article and great simple to follow solution.

- - -
