_drafts/2016-12-31-top-picks-2016-december.md, before:

---
title: Top picks — 2016 December
excerpt: Staying up to date in web industry is a difficult and time consuming task. I would like to share with you my top finds from the past month.
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## Control web typography with CSS font display

[http://www.creativebloq.com/advice/control-web-typography-with-css-font-display](http://www.creativebloq.com/advice/control-web-typography-with-css-font-display)

A great exhalation of font-display property by Umar Hansa. As writing thi article browser support isn't amazing but it works great as a progressive enhancement. That is going to part of every font-face declaration it the short future.

- - -

## Lockfiles should be committed on all projects

[https://yarnpkg.com/blog/2016/11/24/lockfiles-for-all](https://yarnpkg.com/blog/2016/11/24/lockfiles-for-all)

James Kyle explains why we should commit yarn.lock files to our repositories. Makes sense. Essential read for all open source contributors.

- - -

## The Web Worldwide

[https://www.webworldwide.io/](https://www.webworldwide.io/)

[Tim Kadlec](https://twitter.com/tkadlec) build another amazing tool that is a great source of knowledge for every web developers / designers. I quickly compared two countries — United Kingdom (where I live)and Poland (where I come from) and the data is shocking! I'm going to use it a lot. Thanks Tim for building this!

- - -

## CSS Grid!

[http://meyerweb.com/eric/thoughts/2016/12/05/css-grid/](http://meyerweb.com/eric/thoughts/2016/12/05/css-grid/)

Eric Meyer answers popular questions about CSS Gris Module that is coming to our browsers very soon (March 2017). Lots of good insights here. The most controversial question is "Are we ready?" and Erick to that says...

> Rounded corners aren’t universally supported even now, but I bet you’ve used them.

- - -

## GPU Animation: Doing It Right

[https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2016/12/gpu-animation-doing-it-right/](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2016/12/gpu-animation-doing-it-right/)

The best thing that I have ever read about animations. Sergey Chikuyonok (creator of popular tool Emmet) gives us a list of amazing advices about silky smooth animations in CSS, number of great technical explanations and tons of examples. Must read this month!

- - -

## JavaScript30

[https://javascript30.com/](https://javascript30.com/)

You read a book about JavaScript, you went through all available courses online, you mastered your console logs in your browser but you still haven't build a proper JavaScript project yet. Wes Bos is coming with a course that is perfect for you. It takes 30 days and each day Wes builds a new cool js experiment. The best teacher is practice, and this is motto of this course. Highly recommended!

- - -

## SmashingConf Barcelona 2016 - Marcin Wichary on To Hell For Type

[https://vimeo.com/190403389](https://vimeo.com/190403389)

I'm sure you love typography on [Medium.com](https://medium.com/). Marcin Wichary explain why you love it! Essentially it is piece of art and every single edge case is taken into consideration. Great and funny talk!

- - -

##

Commit message:

add new article to top picks: The (Not So) Secret Powers Of The Mobile Browser

_drafts/2016-12-31-top-picks-2016-december.md, after:

---
title: Top picks — 2016 December
excerpt: Staying up to date in web industry is a difficult and time consuming task. I would like to share with you my top finds from the past month.
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## Control web typography with CSS font display

[http://www.creativebloq.com/advice/control-web-typography-with-css-font-display](http://www.creativebloq.com/advice/control-web-typography-with-css-font-display)

A great exhalation of font-display property by Umar Hansa. As writing thi article browser support isn't amazing but it works great as a progressive enhancement. That is going to part of every font-face declaration it the short future.

- - -

## Lockfiles should be committed on all projects

[https://yarnpkg.com/blog/2016/11/24/lockfiles-for-all](https://yarnpkg.com/blog/2016/11/24/lockfiles-for-all)

James Kyle explains why we should commit yarn.lock files to our repositories. Makes sense. Essential read for all open source contributors.

- - -

## The Web Worldwide

[https://www.webworldwide.io/](https://www.webworldwide.io/)

[Tim Kadlec](https://twitter.com/tkadlec) build another amazing tool that is a great source of knowledge for every web developers / designers. I quickly compared two countries — United Kingdom (where I live)and Poland (where I come from) and the data is shocking! I'm going to use it a lot. Thanks Tim for building this!

- - -

## CSS Grid!

[http://meyerweb.com/eric/thoughts/2016/12/05/css-grid/](http://meyerweb.com/eric/thoughts/2016/12/05/css-grid/)

Eric Meyer answers popular questions about CSS Gris Module that is coming to our browsers very soon (March 2017). Lots of good insights here. The most controversial question is "Are we ready?" and Erick to that says...

> Rounded corners aren’t universally supported even now, but I bet you’ve used them.

- - -

## GPU Animation: Doing It Right

[https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2016/12/gpu-animation-doing-it-right/](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2016/12/gpu-animation-doing-it-right/)

The best thing that I have ever read about animations. Sergey Chikuyonok (creator of popular tool Emmet) gives us a list of amazing advices about silky smooth animations in CSS, number of great technical explanations and tons of examples. Must read this month!

- - -

## JavaScript30

[https://javascript30.com/](https://javascript30.com/)

You read a book about JavaScript, you went through all available courses online, you mastered your console logs in your browser but you still haven't build a proper JavaScript project yet. Wes Bos is coming with a course that is perfect for you. It takes 30 days and each day Wes builds a new cool js experiment. The best teacher is practice, and this is motto of this course. Highly recommended!

- - -

## SmashingConf Barcelona 2016 - Marcin Wichary on To Hell For Type

[https://vimeo.com/190403389](https://vimeo.com/190403389)

I'm sure you love typography on [Medium.com](https://medium.com/). Marcin Wichary explain why you love it! Essentially it is piece of art and every single edge case is taken into consideration. Great and funny talk!

- - -

## The (Not So) Secret Powers Of The Mobile Browser

[https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2016/12/the-not-so-secret-powers-of-the-mobile-browser/](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2016/12/the-not-so-secret-powers-of-the-mobile-browser/)

Meet the great power of moder web APIs. Great example with imaginary Zoe written by [Stéphanie Walter](https://twitter.com/WalterStephanie). This article made me want to buy a Pixel by Google. Shame on you Apple!

- - -

## Front-End Performance Checklist 2017

[https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2016/12/front-end-performance-checklist-2017-pdf-pages/](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2016/12/front-end-performance-checklist-2017-pdf-pages/)

Vitaly Friedman
