_drafts/2016-10-31-top-picks-2016-october.md, before:

---
title: Top picks — 2016 October
excerpt: Staying up to date in web industry is a difficult and time consuming task. I would like to share with you my top finds from the past month.
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## Vue 2.0 is Here!

[https://medium.com/the-vue-point/vue-2-0-is-here-ef1f26acf4b8](https://medium.com/the-vue-point/vue-2-0-is-here-ef1f26acf4b8)

After few months of working, 8 alphas, 8 betas and 8 rcs the new version of one of the most popular frameworks is here. Rewritten rendering layer makes it on of the fastest frameworks out there. JSX support, server side rendering and works across Web, iOS and Android!

- - -

## How React Do?

[http://blog.jfo.click/how-react-do/](http://blog.jfo.click/how-react-do/)

Jeff Fowler and his deep dive into very basics of react. Great read for curious beginners in this library.

- - -

## Flex-grow 9999 Hack

[http://joren.co/flex-grow-9999-hack/](http://joren.co/flex-grow-9999-hack/)

Cleaver flexbox trick. Two by two elements spread in single line only when there is enough room and nicely fill the view with elements under neath of each other. I ❤︎ flexbox.

- - -

## HTML Kong

[https://www.xn--8ws00zhy3a.com/blog/2016/07/html-kong](https://www.xn--8ws00zhy3a.com/blog/2016/07/html-kong)

To make the conclusion of a [great article](https://www.christianheilmann.com/2016/10/05/can-we-stop-bad-mouthing-css-in-developer-talks-please/) by Christian Heilmann even stronger, I'm coming with another reason to show you the power of pure CSS. Mind blown!

- - -

##

Commit message:

Yarn - new npm to top picks

_drafts/2016-10-31-top-picks-2016-october.md, after:

---
title: Top picks — 2016 October
excerpt: Staying up to date in web industry is a difficult and time consuming task. I would like to share with you my top finds from the past month.
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## Vue 2.0 is Here!

[https://medium.com/the-vue-point/vue-2-0-is-here-ef1f26acf4b8](https://medium.com/the-vue-point/vue-2-0-is-here-ef1f26acf4b8)

After few months of working, 8 alphas, 8 betas and 8 rcs the new version of one of the most popular frameworks is here. Rewritten rendering layer makes it on of the fastest frameworks out there. JSX support, server side rendering and works across Web, iOS and Android!

- - -

## How React Do?

[http://blog.jfo.click/how-react-do/](http://blog.jfo.click/how-react-do/)

Jeff Fowler and his deep dive into very basics of react. Great read for curious beginners in this library.

- - -

## Flex-grow 9999 Hack

[http://joren.co/flex-grow-9999-hack/](http://joren.co/flex-grow-9999-hack/)

Cleaver flexbox trick. Two by two elements spread in single line only when there is enough room and nicely fill the view with elements under neath of each other. I ❤︎ flexbox.

- - -

## HTML Kong

[https://www.xn--8ws00zhy3a.com/blog/2016/07/html-kong](https://www.xn--8ws00zhy3a.com/blog/2016/07/html-kong)

To make the conclusion of a [great article](https://www.christianheilmann.com/2016/10/05/can-we-stop-bad-mouthing-css-in-developer-talks-please/) by Christian Heilmann even stronger, I'm coming with another reason to show you the power of pure CSS. Mind blown!

- - -

## Yarn: A new package manager for JavaScript

[https://code.facebook.com/posts/1840075619545360](https://code.facebook.com/posts/1840075619545360)

JavaScript doesn't slow down. Guys from Facebook, Goodle and Tilde put together a package manager of 2016. The main difference is speed and security. After quick tests it is incredibly fast and works offline like a charm! Looking forward to see the progress of it.

- - -

##
