_drafts/2016-11-30-top-picks-2016-november.md, before:

---
title: Top picks — 2016 November
excerpt: Staying up to date in web industry is a difficult and time consuming task. I would like to share with you my top finds from the past month.
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## Responsive Images Are Here. Now What?

[https://vimeo.com/177732167](https://vimeo.com/177732167)

Jason Grigsby goes through use cases, methods and possible techniques of responsive images. A bit of background of spec design considerations, a bit about the future of working with images in responsive design. Freat talk from An Event Apart Austin.

- - -

## Getting Started with Webpack 2

[https://blog.madewithenvy.com/getting-started-with-webpack-2-ed2b86c68783](https://blog.madewithenvy.com/getting-started-with-webpack-2-ed2b86c68783)

Drew Powers wrote a great tutorial about basic usage of upcoming Webpack 2. He does a great job in explaining Webpack in general. Thanks Drew!

- - -

## Debugging The Web (Chrome Dev Summit 2016)

[https://youtu.be/HF1luRD4Qmk](https://youtu.be/HF1luRD4Qmk)

Paul Irish presented new bunch of dev tools features on this years Chrome Dev Summit. From small things like improvements to multiline scripts in the console to amazing experience about debugging frontend and node backend in the same window. I'm pretty excited about workspaces inteligent mapping instead of manually linking assets from the hard drive.

- - -

## Not An Imposter: Fighting Front-End Fatigue

[https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2016/11/not-an-imposter-fighting-front-end-fatigue/](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2016/11/not-an-imposter-fighting-front-end-fatigue/)

[David Berner](https://twitter.com/DaveOrDead) chose a perfect timing to write this article. I feel a bit burned out and I lost a motivation to publish a great new blog post every week. It's worth to remember that we are not the only people who struggle with this syndrome. It is absolutely fine to don't know a;; these amazing things that twitter told us about. Really great article!

- - -

## Affinity Designer for Windows has launched!

[https://affinity.serif.com/blog/affinity-designer-for-windows-has-launched/](https://affinity.serif.com/blog/affinity-designer-for-windows-has-launched/)

I ditched Adobe products more than a year ago and [I don't miss it at all](https://pawelgrzybek.com/i-wont-miss-you-adobe/). Affinity Photo is a tool that I replaced Photoshop with. It is not that complex, not that advanced, but interface is extremely similar and it does absolutely more than I need. The only downside of this tool was mac OS compatibility only. Today officially windows users can join the club. Happy days!

- - -

## I totally forgot about print style sheets

[https://medium.com/@matuzo/i-totally-forgot-about-print-style-sheets-f1e6604cfd6](https://medium.com/@matuzo/i-totally-forgot-about-print-style-sheets-f1e6604cfd6)

Have you ever heard saying "The Cobbler's Children Have No Shoes" — this is the reason why I neglected me website so much. I promise to update a design and make it more accessibility friendly very soon. Print styles is another thing that I will do — thanks to this great article by [Manuel Matuzovic](https://twitter.com/mmatuzo). Collection of great tips how to improve printed websites.


- - -

##

Commit message:

Add Image Effects with CSS to top picks

_drafts/2016-11-30-top-picks-2016-november.md, after:

---
title: Top picks — 2016 November
excerpt: Staying up to date in web industry is a difficult and time consuming task. I would like to share with you my top finds from the past month.
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## Responsive Images Are Here. Now What?

[https://vimeo.com/177732167](https://vimeo.com/177732167)

Jason Grigsby goes through use cases, methods and possible techniques of responsive images. A bit of background of spec design considerations, a bit about the future of working with images in responsive design. Freat talk from An Event Apart Austin.

- - -

## Getting Started with Webpack 2

[https://blog.madewithenvy.com/getting-started-with-webpack-2-ed2b86c68783](https://blog.madewithenvy.com/getting-started-with-webpack-2-ed2b86c68783)

Drew Powers wrote a great tutorial about basic usage of upcoming Webpack 2. He does a great job in explaining Webpack in general. Thanks Drew!

- - -

## Debugging The Web (Chrome Dev Summit 2016)

[https://youtu.be/HF1luRD4Qmk](https://youtu.be/HF1luRD4Qmk)

Paul Irish presented new bunch of dev tools features on this years Chrome Dev Summit. From small things like improvements to multiline scripts in the console to amazing experience about debugging frontend and node backend in the same window. I'm pretty excited about workspaces inteligent mapping instead of manually linking assets from the hard drive.

- - -

## Not An Imposter: Fighting Front-End Fatigue

[https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2016/11/not-an-imposter-fighting-front-end-fatigue/](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2016/11/not-an-imposter-fighting-front-end-fatigue/)

[David Berner](https://twitter.com/DaveOrDead) chose a perfect timing to write this article. I feel a bit burned out and I lost a motivation to publish a great new blog post every week. It's worth to remember that we are not the only people who struggle with this syndrome. It is absolutely fine to don't know a;; these amazing things that twitter told us about. Really great article!

- - -

## Affinity Designer for Windows has launched!

[https://affinity.serif.com/blog/affinity-designer-for-windows-has-launched/](https://affinity.serif.com/blog/affinity-designer-for-windows-has-launched/)

I ditched Adobe products more than a year ago and [I don't miss it at all](https://pawelgrzybek.com/i-wont-miss-you-adobe/). Affinity Photo is a tool that I replaced Photoshop with. It is not that complex, not that advanced, but interface is extremely similar and it does absolutely more than I need. The only downside of this tool was mac OS compatibility only. Today officially windows users can join the club. Happy days!

- - -

## I totally forgot about print style sheets

[https://medium.com/@matuzo/i-totally-forgot-about-print-style-sheets-f1e6604cfd6](https://medium.com/@matuzo/i-totally-forgot-about-print-style-sheets-f1e6604cfd6)

Have you ever heard saying "The Cobbler's Children Have No Shoes" — this is the reason why I neglected me website so much. I promise to update a design and make it more accessibility friendly very soon. Print styles is another thing that I will do — thanks to this great article by [Manuel Matuzovic](https://twitter.com/mmatuzo). Collection of great tips how to improve printed websites.


- - -

## Image Effects with CSS

[http://bennettfeely.com/image-effects/](http://bennettfeely.com/image-effects/)

WOW! Such a great resource by [Bennett Feely](https://twitter.com/bennettfeely) to embrace CSS blending mode / filters. Super cool mini project! Thanks for making that Bennett.

- - -

##
