_drafts/2016-08-31-top-picks-2016-august.md, before:

---
title: Top picks — 2016 August
excerpt: Staying up to date in web industry is a difficult and time consuming task. I would like to share with you my top finds from the past month.
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## David Wells - CSS in React

A great talk by [David Wells](https://twitter.com/DavidWells) on ReactJS San Francisco Bay Area meet-up. All that you need to know about styling React components. Pros and cons of each popular method with strong recommendation of [CSS modules](https://github.com/css-modules/css-modules) powered by [PostCSS](http://postcss.org/). I don't entirely agree with some parts of David's approach but it is really interesting to have an overview of other developers strategy.

- - -

## CSS Function Syntaxes (color and otherwise)

[http://www.xanthir.com/b4iW0](http://www.xanthir.com/b4iW0)

Tab Atkins explains the reason behind new syntax for CSS rgb color notation. If it's too long too read the only thing to remember is future in the future `rgba(0, 255, 0, 50%)` notation will be replaced by `rgb(0 255 0 / 50%)`. The reason behind it makes sense.

- - -

## Staggering Animations

[https://css-tricks.com/staggering-animations/](https://css-tricks.com/staggering-animations/)

David DeSandro — author of Masonry, Isotope, Flickity, Packery and many many more superb plugins drives us through considerations of implementing new type of animation in Isotope version 3. I love this kind of posts that apart from final result reveals a development process in details.

- - -

## Force Selection of Text Block

[https://css-tricks.com/force-selection-text-block/](https://css-tricks.com/force-selection-text-block/)

Next one from CSS Tricks this week. Chris Coyier presents a neat trick to select a whole block of text via single click without heavy JavaScript of Flash based add-ons. Very handy trick especially when we need to make sure that whole bit of code is copies (like a code snippet or telephone number).

- - -

##

Commit message:

add new article to drafts

_drafts/2016-08-31-top-picks-2016-august.md, after:

---
title: Top picks — 2016 August
excerpt: Staying up to date in web industry is a difficult and time consuming task. I would like to share with you my top finds from the past month.
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## David Wells - CSS in React

A great talk by [David Wells](https://twitter.com/DavidWells) on ReactJS San Francisco Bay Area meet-up. All that you need to know about styling React components. Pros and cons of each popular method with strong recommendation of [CSS modules](https://github.com/css-modules/css-modules) powered by [PostCSS](http://postcss.org/). I don't entirely agree with some parts of David's approach but it is really interesting to have an overview of other developers strategy.

- - -

## CSS Function Syntaxes (color and otherwise)

[http://www.xanthir.com/b4iW0](http://www.xanthir.com/b4iW0)

Tab Atkins explains the reason behind new syntax for CSS rgb color notation. If it's too long too read the only thing to remember is future in the future `rgba(0, 255, 0, 50%)` notation will be replaced by `rgb(0 255 0 / 50%)`. The reason behind it makes sense.

- - -

## Staggering Animations

[https://css-tricks.com/staggering-animations/](https://css-tricks.com/staggering-animations/)

David DeSandro — author of Masonry, Isotope, Flickity, Packery and many many more superb plugins drives us through considerations of implementing new type of animation in Isotope version 3. I love this kind of posts that apart from final result reveals a development process in details.

- - -

## Force Selection of Text Block

[https://css-tricks.com/force-selection-text-block/](https://css-tricks.com/force-selection-text-block/)

Next one from CSS Tricks this week. Chris Coyier presents a neat trick to select a whole block of text via single click without heavy JavaScript of Flash based add-ons. Very handy trick especially when we need to make sure that whole bit of code is copies (like a code snippet or telephone number).

- - -

## Yes, You Should Learn Vanilla JavaScript Before Fancy JS Frameworks

[https://snipcart.com/blog/learn-vanilla-javascript-before-using-js-frameworks](https://snipcart.com/blog/learn-vanilla-javascript-before-using-js-frameworks)

I can't agree enough with this article. I'm sick of people who call themselves "Angular Developer" or "react Developer". I can't imagine how can you be a good framework developer without knowing core principles of language that has been used to build it. I follow teaching style promoted by great Kyle Simpson who is a strong believer in deep understanding before moving forward. Francois-Xavier P. Darveau shares the same school. Great read!

- - -

##
