_drafts/2017-11-31-top-picks-2017-december.md, before:

---
title: Top picks — 2017 December
excerpt: December description here…
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## Learn React Fundamentals and Advanced Patterns
[https://blog.kentcdodds.com/learn-react-fundamentals-and-advanced-patterns-eac90341c9db](https://blog.kentcdodds.com/learn-react-fundamentals-and-advanced-patterns-eac90341c9db)

Kent C. Dodds just revealed a brand new series of courses about React. It is totally up to date and cover all that you need to know about Facebook's framework. From component creation to advanced workflow using Redux. Well recommended resources.

- - -

## Parcel

[https://parceljs.org/](https://parceljs.org/)

Webpack is amazing but the only downside of it may be a configuration that can be overwhelming. Parcel comes handy then. This is a new kid on the block — no configuration is required and somehow it resolves all dependencies for you. Fingers crossed for future of this project.

- - -

## Turbo
[https://medium.com/@ericsimons/introducing-turbo-5x-faster-than-yarn-npm-and-runs-natively-in-browser-cc2c39715403](https://medium.com/@ericsimons/introducing-turbo-5x-faster-than-yarn-npm-and-runs-natively-in-browser-cc2c39715403)

NPM client five time faster than it's origin, smaller node_modules size and most interestingly works in the browser — Turbo. Another bran new tool that the Twitter went crazy about. Instant dependency resolution, robust caching mechanisms and works great with tiny and massive apps. Sounds nice, time will show us if it is going to take over the popularity of good old npm and yarn.

- - -

##

Commit message:

publish: Getting your site ready for mobile-first indexing

_drafts/2017-11-31-top-picks-2017-december.md, after:

---
title: Top picks — 2017 December
excerpt: December description here…
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## Learn React Fundamentals and Advanced Patterns
[https://blog.kentcdodds.com/learn-react-fundamentals-and-advanced-patterns-eac90341c9db](https://blog.kentcdodds.com/learn-react-fundamentals-and-advanced-patterns-eac90341c9db)

Kent C. Dodds just revealed a brand new series of courses about React. It is totally up to date and cover all that you need to know about Facebook's framework. From component creation to advanced workflow using Redux. Well recommended resources.

- - -

## Parcel

[https://parceljs.org/](https://parceljs.org/)

Webpack is amazing but the only downside of it may be a configuration that can be overwhelming. Parcel comes handy then. This is a new kid on the block — no configuration is required and somehow it resolves all dependencies for you. Fingers crossed for future of this project.

- - -

## Turbo
[https://medium.com/@ericsimons/introducing-turbo-5x-faster-than-yarn-npm-and-runs-natively-in-browser-cc2c39715403](https://medium.com/@ericsimons/introducing-turbo-5x-faster-than-yarn-npm-and-runs-natively-in-browser-cc2c39715403)

NPM client five time faster than it's origin, smaller node_modules size and most interestingly works in the browser — Turbo. Another bran new tool that the Twitter went crazy about. Instant dependency resolution, robust caching mechanisms and works great with tiny and massive apps. Sounds nice, time will show us if it is going to take over the popularity of good old npm and yarn.

- - -

## Getting your site ready for mobile-first indexing

[https://webmasters.googleblog.com/2017/12/getting-your-site-ready-for-mobile.html](https://webmasters.googleblog.com/2017/12/getting-your-site-ready-for-mobile.html)

Google changes indexing mechanism fro desktop-first to mobile-first. We should expect a strong indexing bump for all websites that are mobile optimized and probably a significant drop for old-school, not maintained projects.

- - -

##
