_drafts/2017-03-31-top-picks-2017-march.md, before:

---
title: Top picks — 2017 March
excerpt: Staying up to date in web industry is a difficult and time consuming task. I would like to share with you my top finds from the past month.
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## Convert String to DOM Nodes

[https://davidwalsh.name/convert-html-stings-dom-nodes](https://davidwalsh.name/convert-html-stings-dom-nodes)

Dawid Walsh explains how to convert strings to DOM nodes by using `parseFromString()` method from [DOMParser](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/DOMParser) instance. Nice, clean and library free solution.

- - -

## Comparing the Performance between Native iOS (Swift) and React-Native

[https://medium.com/the-react-native-log/comparing-the-performance-between-native-ios-swift-and-react-native-7b5490d363e2](https://medium.com/the-react-native-log/comparing-the-performance-between-native-ios-swift-and-react-native-7b5490d363e2)

John A. Calderaio build the same iOS app using Swift and React Native. Great idea for comparison of two very opinionated ways of building an iPhone applications. Results are kind of shocking for me where Facebooks framework performs better on two of four tested areas. Really nice read and another great reason to see a bright future for frameworks like React Native.

- - -

##

Commit message:

New article to top picks: Testing Your Frontend Code: Part II (Unit Testing)

_drafts/2017-03-31-top-picks-2017-march.md, after:

---
title: Top picks — 2017 March
excerpt: Staying up to date in web industry is a difficult and time consuming task. I would like to share with you my top finds from the past month.
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## Convert String to DOM Nodes

[https://davidwalsh.name/convert-html-stings-dom-nodes](https://davidwalsh.name/convert-html-stings-dom-nodes)

Dawid Walsh explains how to convert strings to DOM nodes by using `parseFromString()` method from [DOMParser](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/DOMParser) instance. Nice, clean and library free solution.

- - -

## Comparing the Performance between Native iOS (Swift) and React-Native

[https://medium.com/the-react-native-log/comparing-the-performance-between-native-ios-swift-and-react-native-7b5490d363e2](https://medium.com/the-react-native-log/comparing-the-performance-between-native-ios-swift-and-react-native-7b5490d363e2)

John A. Calderaio build the same iOS app using Swift and React Native. Great idea for comparison of two very opinionated ways of building an iPhone applications. Results are kind of shocking for me where Facebooks framework performs better on two of four tested areas. Really nice read and another great reason to see a bright future for frameworks like React Native.

- - -

## Testing Your Frontend Code: Part II (Unit Testing)

[https://hackernoon.com/testing-your-frontend-code-part-ii-unit-testing-1d05f8d50859](https://hackernoon.com/testing-your-frontend-code-part-ii-unit-testing-1d05f8d50859)

Month ago I linked a first post from the series about testing front-end code by [https://twitter.com/giltayar](Gil Tayar). This month it is time to list remaining parts from this great three-parts tutorial. This time- unit testing with Mocha.

- - -

##
