_drafts/2017-09-30-top-picks-2017-september.md, before:

---
title: Top picks — 2017 September
excerpt: This month is all about…
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## So you need a CSS utility library?

[https://css-tricks.com/need-css-utility-library/](https://css-tricks.com/need-css-utility-library/)

Chris Coyier throws bunch of insights about utility libraries and strategies of using them. Personally I like writing CSS and I always prefer to do it by myself although I can see a need for having one of them at some point. The second part of this article is a long list of the most popular tools of this type. I can't get the point of mixing one of them with currently existing CSS base. Totally agreed with Chris about it…

> I can't tell you if you'll love working with an all in utility library approach like this or not, but long-term, I imagine you'll be happier picking either all-in or not-at-all than a tweener approach.

- - -

## Authentication Still Sucks

[https://www.rdegges.com/2017/authentication-still-sucks/](https://www.rdegges.com/2017/authentication-still-sucks/)

I learned tons about authentication, authorization, and user management from [Randall Degges](https://twitter.com/rdegges). In this essay he tells the story behind Stormpath (previous employer) being acquired and lunched as a [Okta Identity Platform](https://developer.okta.com/). With current pricing plan there is no better solution to handle authentication, authorization, and user management in secure way on your next project. I'll definitely use it on my another app that requires registration / login option.

- - -

##

Commit message:

add article about sketch lbraries in beta version

_drafts/2017-09-30-top-picks-2017-september.md, after:

---
title: Top picks — 2017 September
excerpt: This month is all about…
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## So you need a CSS utility library?

[https://css-tricks.com/need-css-utility-library/](https://css-tricks.com/need-css-utility-library/)

Chris Coyier throws bunch of insights about utility libraries and strategies of using them. Personally I like writing CSS and I always prefer to do it by myself although I can see a need for having one of them at some point. The second part of this article is a long list of the most popular tools of this type. I can't get the point of mixing one of them with currently existing CSS base. Totally agreed with Chris about it…

> I can't tell you if you'll love working with an all in utility library approach like this or not, but long-term, I imagine you'll be happier picking either all-in or not-at-all than a tweener approach.

- - -

## Authentication Still Sucks

[https://www.rdegges.com/2017/authentication-still-sucks/](https://www.rdegges.com/2017/authentication-still-sucks/)

I learned tons about authentication, authorization, and user management from [Randall Degges](https://twitter.com/rdegges). In this essay he tells the story behind Stormpath (previous employer) being acquired and lunched as a [Okta Identity Platform](https://developer.okta.com/). With current pricing plan there is no better solution to handle authentication, authorization, and user management in secure way on your next project. I'll definitely use it on my another app that requires registration / login option.

- - -

## Sketch — Libraries (Beta)

[https://sketchapp.com/learn/documentation/libraries/](https://sketchapp.com/learn/documentation/libraries/)

Sketch 47 comes with another revolutionary feature called Libraries. If you are a Sketch user, it won't take long to master new version. The concept is essentially the same as using symbols — the only difference is the fact that symbols are no longer attached to a single document but becomes global. If the file is marked as a library you can drop it to your server or local network and use it across all team members. It will make projects well synced and consistent. I'm sure the players of big design teams will benefit from tis feature.
