_drafts/2017-10-31-top-picks-2017-october.md, before:

---
title: Top picks — 2017 October
excerpt: 
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## Microsoft Edge for iOS and Android: What developers need to know

[https://blogs.windows.com/msedgedev/2017/10/05/microsoft-edge-ios-android-developer/#3ZUtLS8GXDAl1RbT.97](https://blogs.windows.com/msedgedev/2017/10/05/microsoft-edge-ios-android-developer/#3ZUtLS8GXDAl1RbT.97)

And it is confirmed — Microsofts browser is coming to Android and iOS devices. WebKit engine provided by iOS in the WKWebView is going to be used on Apple devices — that was the obvious (and probably the only possible) choice. Androids engine is going to be Blink from the Chromium project.

- - -

## Front End Center — Caching & CDNs

[https://youtu.be/_QeNLrkPvdI](https://youtu.be/_QeNLrkPvdI)

Glen Maddern again published another free episode of Front End Center. As always it is a top explanation — Cache and CDNs networks are todays subject. Thanks a to for making this content!

- - -

## You can get pretty far in making a slider with just HTML and CSS

[https://css-tricks.com/can-get-pretty-far-making-slider-just-html-css/](https://css-tricks.com/can-get-pretty-far-making-slider-just-html-css/)

Chris Coyier collected a great list of tips to build JS free cliders in pure HTML and CSS. Some of these things are not amazingly great supported, some of them require nasty vendor prefixes, but overall experience of final result is really impressive! You may not need [Siema](https://pawelgrzybek.com/siema/) anymore :P

- - -

## Firefox Quantum

[https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/quantum/](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/quantum/)

New generation of one of the most popular browsers is coming. Firefox Quantum apparently is twice faster and require 30% energy than by far the most popular Google Chrome. Apart from internal changer it is redesigned from ground up and screen shots available on demo website actually look really stunning. Will new Mozilla product shake the world of browsers again — I hope so! November 14th is the day when we all are going to find out, but for now enjoy a beautiful presentation page.

- - -

##

Commit message:

Studio by InVision to top picks

_drafts/2017-10-31-top-picks-2017-october.md, after:

---
title: Top picks — 2017 October
excerpt: 
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## Microsoft Edge for iOS and Android: What developers need to know

[https://blogs.windows.com/msedgedev/2017/10/05/microsoft-edge-ios-android-developer/#3ZUtLS8GXDAl1RbT.97](https://blogs.windows.com/msedgedev/2017/10/05/microsoft-edge-ios-android-developer/#3ZUtLS8GXDAl1RbT.97)

And it is confirmed — Microsofts browser is coming to Android and iOS devices. WebKit engine provided by iOS in the WKWebView is going to be used on Apple devices — that was the obvious (and probably the only possible) choice. Androids engine is going to be Blink from the Chromium project.

- - -

## Front End Center — Caching & CDNs

[https://youtu.be/_QeNLrkPvdI](https://youtu.be/_QeNLrkPvdI)

Glen Maddern again published another free episode of Front End Center. As always it is a top explanation — Cache and CDNs networks are todays subject. Thanks a to for making this content!

- - -

## You can get pretty far in making a slider with just HTML and CSS

[https://css-tricks.com/can-get-pretty-far-making-slider-just-html-css/](https://css-tricks.com/can-get-pretty-far-making-slider-just-html-css/)

Chris Coyier collected a great list of tips to build JS free cliders in pure HTML and CSS. Some of these things are not amazingly great supported, some of them require nasty vendor prefixes, but overall experience of final result is really impressive! You may not need [Siema](https://pawelgrzybek.com/siema/) anymore :P

- - -

## Firefox Quantum

[https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/quantum/](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/quantum/)

New generation of one of the most popular browsers is coming. Firefox Quantum apparently is twice faster and require 30% energy than by far the most popular Google Chrome. Apart from internal changer it is redesigned from ground up and screen shots available on demo website actually look really stunning. Will new Mozilla product shake the world of browsers again — I hope so! November 14th is the day when we all are going to find out, but for now enjoy a beautiful presentation page.

- - -

## Studio - The world's most powerful screen design tool

[https://www.invisionapp.com/studio](https://www.invisionapp.com/studio)

Few years ago Sketch was born. Successful app that entirely changed the UI design game. Adobe XD joined the game. Competition didn't slow down — fantastic Figma came out with tons of revolutionary features. These are design tools — not a great ones to create interactive prototypes tho. The market of prototyping tools is much more chock-full — Framer, Principle, Marvel, ProtoIO, Flinto, Origami, Napkin and many more. One of the first ones is InVision! Today this one is changing the game (hopefully). Studio — design tool with the whole power of prototyping functionality baked in. Personally I was waiting for a tool that allow me to do these two things in a single app (no, Adobe XD can't do it well). I'm excited to see this one…

<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/238515862?title=0&byline=0&portrait=0" width="800" height="450" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>

- - -

##
