_drafts/2017-01-31-top-picks-2017-january.md, before:

---
title: Top picks — 2017 January
excerpt: Staying up to date in web industry is a difficult and time consuming task. I would like to share with you my top finds from the past month.
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## TypeScript: the missing introduction

[https://toddmotto.com/typescript-the-missing-introduction#background](https://toddmotto.com/typescript-the-missing-introduction#background)

One of my colleagues recommended me TypeScript the other day as a thing that I necessarily need to have a look at — future of JS. I was stubborn for quite a while until I came across this great primer to TypeScript by [James Henry](https://twitter.com/MrJamesHenry). It just makes sense! JavaScript is first (and the only one) programming language that I know and I didn't really understand concept of types from other languages. I even learned a lot about coercion and explicitly used in my applications. This article made my life a bit easier and I commit myself to dig deeper into TS.

- - -

## ColorMe

[https://colorme.io/](https://colorme.io/)

[Tyler Gaw](https://twitter.com/tylergaw) built a great tool that is insanely helpful to understand CSS color functions! ColorMe allow you to preview code generated by applying new filter to base colors. It is a React apssp built on top of Create React App. More about building process on Tyler's blog post. Thanks for creating it mate!

- - -

## Sublime Tutor

[https://sublimetutor.com/](https://sublimetutor.com/)

New to Sublime Text? This plugin will make you a ST hero in few hours. Such a great idea! Thanks [Jai Pandya](https://twitter.com/jaipandya).

- - -

## Native ECMAScript modules - the first overview

[https://blog.hospodarets.com/native-ecmascript-modules-the-first-overview](https://blog.hospodarets.com/native-ecmascript-modules-the-first-overview)

Finally it is happening — park of ECMAScript 2015 specification is just coming to the browsers (begining of 2017, yeah). Safari 19 Technical Preview and Edge 15 ( with the flags enabled) allow us to play around with native js modules without using bundlers linke Webpack or Browserify. Serg goes in depth about it and show working examples. Thanks for this write up mate!

- - -

## webpack 2.2: The Final Release

[https://medium.com/webpack/webpack-2-2-the-final-release-76c3d43bf144#.i46qs4hfj](https://medium.com/webpack/webpack-2-2-the-final-release-76c3d43bf144#.i46qs4hfj)

We were waiting for it agaes and its finally there. Final release of second version of the best module bundler in JavaScript community is ready! Check the new version and go through migration guide on new official [docs](https://webpack.js.org/) website.

- - -

## What’s the best font size for the web?

[https://blog.prototypr.io/whats-the-best-font-size-for-the-web-97e6d7854ce6](https://blog.prototypr.io/whats-the-best-font-size-for-the-web-97e6d7854ce6)

Very technical, math and medicine heavy aprocha to pick a correct size for your body copy by Francesco Smio. Really love very in depth research and tabular summary with results.

- - -

## Understanding the Critical Rendering Path

[https://bitsofco.de/understanding-the-critical-rendering-path/](https://bitsofco.de/understanding-the-critical-rendering-path/)

Such a helpful article to understand critical rendering mechanism in our browse by [Ire Aderinokun](https://twitter.com/ireaderinokun). Every single step well explained followed by screenshot ot "Performace" tab from Google Chrome Canary which clarify the whole process even more.

- - -

## Solving the Web Performance Crisis

[https://channel9.msdn.com/Blogs/msedgedev/nolanlaw-web-perf-crisis](https://channel9.msdn.com/Blogs/msedgedev/nolanlaw-web-perf-crisis)

Nolan Lawson about web performance bloat that is a mainly fault of JavaScript. Number of great tricks and trips and tons of great advices related to curently popular workflows / toolchains.

- - -

## The global object in Javascript: a matter of platforms, unreadable code and not breaking the internet

[https://www.contentful.com/blog/2017/01/17/the-global-object-in-javascript/](https://www.contentful.com/blog/2017/01/17/the-global-object-in-javascript/)

Stefan Judis explains the current (very messy) state of global object in multiple JavaScript enviorements. Really cool article that points out great tip of using function contructor as a argument inside IIFE (Imidiatelly Invoked Function Expresion) to return global object.

- - -

## Announcing Ionic 2.0.0 Final

[http://blog.ionic.io/announcing-ionic-2-0-0-final/](http://blog.ionic.io/announcing-ionic-2-0-0-final/)

Ionic working closely with Angular team just announced a stable version of of of the best mmobile frameworksever made — Ionic 2. It is based on Angular 2, written in ES2015, packed with tons of new components, easier theaming, boosted performance and new shiny docs. Nice!

- - -

##

Commit message:

New article to top picks: Save for Offline by Una Kravets

_drafts/2017-01-31-top-picks-2017-january.md, after:

---
title: Top picks — 2017 January
excerpt: Staying up to date in web industry is a difficult and time consuming task. I would like to share with you my top finds from the past month.
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## TypeScript: the missing introduction

[https://toddmotto.com/typescript-the-missing-introduction#background](https://toddmotto.com/typescript-the-missing-introduction#background)

One of my colleagues recommended me TypeScript the other day as a thing that I necessarily need to have a look at — future of JS. I was stubborn for quite a while until I came across this great primer to TypeScript by [James Henry](https://twitter.com/MrJamesHenry). It just makes sense! JavaScript is first (and the only one) programming language that I know and I didn't really understand concept of types from other languages. I even learned a lot about coercion and explicitly used in my applications. This article made my life a bit easier and I commit myself to dig deeper into TS.

- - -

## ColorMe

[https://colorme.io/](https://colorme.io/)

[Tyler Gaw](https://twitter.com/tylergaw) built a great tool that is insanely helpful to understand CSS color functions! ColorMe allow you to preview code generated by applying new filter to base colors. It is a React apssp built on top of Create React App. More about building process on Tyler's blog post. Thanks for creating it mate!

- - -

## Sublime Tutor

[https://sublimetutor.com/](https://sublimetutor.com/)

New to Sublime Text? This plugin will make you a ST hero in few hours. Such a great idea! Thanks [Jai Pandya](https://twitter.com/jaipandya).

- - -

## Native ECMAScript modules - the first overview

[https://blog.hospodarets.com/native-ecmascript-modules-the-first-overview](https://blog.hospodarets.com/native-ecmascript-modules-the-first-overview)

Finally it is happening — park of ECMAScript 2015 specification is just coming to the browsers (begining of 2017, yeah). Safari 19 Technical Preview and Edge 15 ( with the flags enabled) allow us to play around with native js modules without using bundlers linke Webpack or Browserify. Serg goes in depth about it and show working examples. Thanks for this write up mate!

- - -

## webpack 2.2: The Final Release

[https://medium.com/webpack/webpack-2-2-the-final-release-76c3d43bf144#.i46qs4hfj](https://medium.com/webpack/webpack-2-2-the-final-release-76c3d43bf144#.i46qs4hfj)

We were waiting for it agaes and its finally there. Final release of second version of the best module bundler in JavaScript community is ready! Check the new version and go through migration guide on new official [docs](https://webpack.js.org/) website.

- - -

## What’s the best font size for the web?

[https://blog.prototypr.io/whats-the-best-font-size-for-the-web-97e6d7854ce6](https://blog.prototypr.io/whats-the-best-font-size-for-the-web-97e6d7854ce6)

Very technical, math and medicine heavy aprocha to pick a correct size for your body copy by Francesco Smio. Really love very in depth research and tabular summary with results.

- - -

## Understanding the Critical Rendering Path

[https://bitsofco.de/understanding-the-critical-rendering-path/](https://bitsofco.de/understanding-the-critical-rendering-path/)

Such a helpful article to understand critical rendering mechanism in our browse by [Ire Aderinokun](https://twitter.com/ireaderinokun). Every single step well explained followed by screenshot ot "Performace" tab from Google Chrome Canary which clarify the whole process even more.

- - -

## Solving the Web Performance Crisis

[https://channel9.msdn.com/Blogs/msedgedev/nolanlaw-web-perf-crisis](https://channel9.msdn.com/Blogs/msedgedev/nolanlaw-web-perf-crisis)

Nolan Lawson about web performance bloat that is a mainly fault of JavaScript. Number of great tricks and trips and tons of great advices related to curently popular workflows / toolchains.

- - -

## The global object in Javascript: a matter of platforms, unreadable code and not breaking the internet

[https://www.contentful.com/blog/2017/01/17/the-global-object-in-javascript/](https://www.contentful.com/blog/2017/01/17/the-global-object-in-javascript/)

Stefan Judis explains the current (very messy) state of global object in multiple JavaScript enviorements. Really cool article that points out great tip of using function contructor as a argument inside IIFE (Imidiatelly Invoked Function Expresion) to return global object.

- - -

## Announcing Ionic 2.0.0 Final

[http://blog.ionic.io/announcing-ionic-2-0-0-final/](http://blog.ionic.io/announcing-ionic-2-0-0-final/)

Ionic working closely with Angular team just announced a stable version of of of the best mmobile frameworksever made — Ionic 2. It is based on Angular 2, written in ES2015, packed with tons of new components, easier theaming, boosted performance and new shiny docs. Nice!

- - -

## Implementing "Save For Offline" with Service Workers

[https://una.im/save-offline/](https://una.im/save-offline/)

Moving out to New York city and facing poor mobile connection can be a great insightful experience. Thats why Una Kravets implemented recently an "Save for Offline" feature on her personal website. Really great and well explained tour to basics of Service Worker.

- - -

##
