_drafts/2017-05-30-top-picks-2017-june.md, before:

---
title: Top picks — 2017 July
excerpt: Staying up to date in web industry is a difficult and time consuming task. I would like to share with you my top finds from the past month.
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## A Unified Styling Language

[https://medium.com/seek-blog/a-unified-styling-language-d0c208de2660](https://medium.com/seek-blog/a-unified-styling-language-d0c208de2660)

I need to admit that for a first time when I saw JSX in React I thought that it is a joke. I really did my best to master famous separation of concerns. Then people started porting CSS into JavaScript — crazy idea I thought. Nowadays my mindset changed and I really love tha idea of real separation od concerns (not separation of technologies that I was practicing for years). [Mark Dalgleish](https://twitter.com/markdalgleish) published a fantastic article about it. I read many of post about this subject but non of them is as wll explained and convincing as this one. It isn't a three minutes read but it is wort every minute spent on it.

- - -

## Stuff at the Top of an SVG

[https://medium.com/@pnowelldesign/stuff-at-the-top-of-an-svg-f3ad198eb54e](https://medium.com/@pnowelldesign/stuff-at-the-top-of-an-svg-f3ad198eb54e)

Typical SVG exported straight from Adobe Illustrator, Sketch or any other software contains a lot of meta declarations. Should we keep it or should we safely delete bunch of stuff? [Peter Nowell](https://twitter.com/pnowelldesign) published a great explanation of all declarations and helps us to decide which parts of SVG files we can easily bin.

- - -

## Exploring ES2017 Decorators in JavaScript

[https://www.sitepoint.com/exploring-es2017-decorators-javascript/](https://www.sitepoint.com/exploring-es2017-decorators-javascript/)

The title is very misleading as the spec for ES2017 is finalized and decorators are definitely not part of a new spec but this article is a very good primer to start with decorators. It is a mechanism well known in other programing languages, implemented and very have used in ANgular 2 (thanks to power of TypeScript). It would be very cool to see decorators in the language.

- - -

## Object rest and spread properties

[https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2017/06/object-rest-spread](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2017/06/object-rest-spread)

[Mathias Bynens](https://twitter.com/mathias) [just joined the V8 team](https://twitter.com/mathias/status/869910349193019392) at Google and he managed to implement a new feature to Chrome's engine almost instantly — Object rest and spread properties are coming with the version 60. This post explains the details and shows practical examples.

- - -

##

Commit message:

Add "Results of the Ultimate CSS Survey 2017" to top picks

_drafts/2017-05-30-top-picks-2017-june.md, after:

---
title: Top picks — 2017 July
excerpt: Staying up to date in web industry is a difficult and time consuming task. I would like to share with you my top finds from the past month.
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## A Unified Styling Language

[https://medium.com/seek-blog/a-unified-styling-language-d0c208de2660](https://medium.com/seek-blog/a-unified-styling-language-d0c208de2660)

I need to admit that for a first time when I saw JSX in React I thought that it is a joke. I really did my best to master famous separation of concerns. Then people started porting CSS into JavaScript — crazy idea I thought. Nowadays my mindset changed and I really love tha idea of real separation od concerns (not separation of technologies that I was practicing for years). [Mark Dalgleish](https://twitter.com/markdalgleish) published a fantastic article about it. I read many of post about this subject but non of them is as wll explained and convincing as this one. It isn't a three minutes read but it is wort every minute spent on it.

- - -

## Stuff at the Top of an SVG

[https://medium.com/@pnowelldesign/stuff-at-the-top-of-an-svg-f3ad198eb54e](https://medium.com/@pnowelldesign/stuff-at-the-top-of-an-svg-f3ad198eb54e)

Typical SVG exported straight from Adobe Illustrator, Sketch or any other software contains a lot of meta declarations. Should we keep it or should we safely delete bunch of stuff? [Peter Nowell](https://twitter.com/pnowelldesign) published a great explanation of all declarations and helps us to decide which parts of SVG files we can easily bin.

- - -

## Exploring ES2017 Decorators in JavaScript

[https://www.sitepoint.com/exploring-es2017-decorators-javascript/](https://www.sitepoint.com/exploring-es2017-decorators-javascript/)

The title is very misleading as the spec for ES2017 is finalized and decorators are definitely not part of a new spec but this article is a very good primer to start with decorators. It is a mechanism well known in other programing languages, implemented and very have used in ANgular 2 (thanks to power of TypeScript). It would be very cool to see decorators in the language.

- - -

## Object rest and spread properties

[https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2017/06/object-rest-spread](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2017/06/object-rest-spread)

[Mathias Bynens](https://twitter.com/mathias) [just joined the V8 team](https://twitter.com/mathias/status/869910349193019392) at Google and he managed to implement a new feature to Chrome's engine almost instantly — Object rest and spread properties are coming with the version 60. This post explains the details and shows practical examples.

- - -

## Results of the Ultimate CSS Survey 2017

[https://www.sitepoint.com/results-ultimate-css-survey-2017/](https://www.sitepoint.com/results-ultimate-css-survey-2017/)

Annual CSS survey made by SitePoint is always a great source of front-end important insights. The most surprising for me is number of people still supporting IE8 (and even older browsers).

- - -
