_drafts/2017-05-31-top-picks-2017-may.md, before:

---
title: Top picks — 2017 May
excerpt: Staying up to date in web industry is a difficult and time consuming task. I would like to share with you my top finds from the past month.
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## Four Killer Features of Nunjucks

[https://css-tricks.com/killer-features-of-nunjucks/](https://css-tricks.com/killer-features-of-nunjucks/)

[Chris Coyier](https://twitter.com/chriscoyier) gives us a nice introduction to his favorite featured in new templating language — Nunjucks. It takes Mustache and Handlebars to the next level. The easiest way to play around with it are recently announced [CodePen projects](https://codepen.io/pro/projects).

- - -

## Prepack

[https://prepack.io/](https://prepack.io/)

"A tool for making JavaScript code run faster" is the official pitch of a new tool — Prepack. The idea is brilliant — eliminate compilation at run-time and shift as much optimization logic one step earlier — compilation. Looking forward to see Prepack ou of beta. Really nice explanation of what it does internally and how to use it is [here](https://hackernoon.com/facebooks-prepack-the-next-killer-in-the-javascript-zone-d932556ffd8c). Sebastian McKenzie — one of the authors — explains the concept of faster initialization on [this video](https://youtu.be/xbZzahWakGs) from React Europe 2016.

- - -

## Tom Hudson - Writing Readable Code

[https://youtu.be/OVf0xP4BLq0](https://youtu.be/OVf0xP4BLq0)

A number of great advices of writing human readable code by Tom Hudson. It is just a 15 minutes presentation that every developer should give a quick watch with morning coffee.

- - -

## Why I Abandoned @apply

[http://www.xanthir.com/b4o00](http://www.xanthir.com/b4o00)

Do you remember one of the recent CSS proposal to create basic mixins to CSS via `@apply` keyword? I ever published a [short article](https://pawelgrzybek.com/css-mixins-with-apply-rule/) about it the other day. OK — it's been ditched by the author. The only thing what we can do now is to wait for a better solution that hopefully will come shortly.

> There's plenty more space to experiment here, and while it does suck to lose a tool that you might have gotten excited about, @apply really is just quite a bad idea technically. Let's solve these problems correctly. 

- - -

## Prototyping in Sketch is here—powered by invision

[https://www.invisionapp.com/blog/prototyping-in-sketch/](https://www.invisionapp.com/blog/prototyping-in-sketch/)

I head a chance to test Adobe XD on one ot the recent project. The only thing that I likes is the ease of creating interactive prototypes. It would be cool if we could to it in Sketch! Thanks inVision  it is looking really straight forward.

- - -

## npm v5.0.0

[http://blog.npmjs.org/post/161081169345/v500](http://blog.npmjs.org/post/161081169345/v500)

> Wowowowowow npm@5!

It is a big wow. We were waiting for big update of npm for months. Better performance, offline support out of the box, lockfiles, `--save` keyword as a default `install` command flag, more user friendly log output are just a few big changes in a new manager.

- - -

##

Commit message:

Add post about event propagation to top picks

_drafts/2017-05-31-top-picks-2017-may.md, after:

---
title: Top picks — 2017 May
excerpt: Staying up to date in web industry is a difficult and time consuming task. I would like to share with you my top finds from the past month.
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## Four Killer Features of Nunjucks

[https://css-tricks.com/killer-features-of-nunjucks/](https://css-tricks.com/killer-features-of-nunjucks/)

[Chris Coyier](https://twitter.com/chriscoyier) gives us a nice introduction to his favorite featured in new templating language — Nunjucks. It takes Mustache and Handlebars to the next level. The easiest way to play around with it are recently announced [CodePen projects](https://codepen.io/pro/projects).

- - -

## Prepack

[https://prepack.io/](https://prepack.io/)

"A tool for making JavaScript code run faster" is the official pitch of a new tool — Prepack. The idea is brilliant — eliminate compilation at run-time and shift as much optimization logic one step earlier — compilation. Looking forward to see Prepack ou of beta. Really nice explanation of what it does internally and how to use it is [here](https://hackernoon.com/facebooks-prepack-the-next-killer-in-the-javascript-zone-d932556ffd8c). Sebastian McKenzie — one of the authors — explains the concept of faster initialization on [this video](https://youtu.be/xbZzahWakGs) from React Europe 2016.

- - -

## Tom Hudson - Writing Readable Code

[https://youtu.be/OVf0xP4BLq0](https://youtu.be/OVf0xP4BLq0)

A number of great advices of writing human readable code by Tom Hudson. It is just a 15 minutes presentation that every developer should give a quick watch with morning coffee.

- - -

## Why I Abandoned @apply

[http://www.xanthir.com/b4o00](http://www.xanthir.com/b4o00)

Do you remember one of the recent CSS proposal to create basic mixins to CSS via `@apply` keyword? I ever published a [short article](https://pawelgrzybek.com/css-mixins-with-apply-rule/) about it the other day. OK — it's been ditched by the author. The only thing what we can do now is to wait for a better solution that hopefully will come shortly.

> There's plenty more space to experiment here, and while it does suck to lose a tool that you might have gotten excited about, @apply really is just quite a bad idea technically. Let's solve these problems correctly. 

- - -

## Prototyping in Sketch is here—powered by invision

[https://www.invisionapp.com/blog/prototyping-in-sketch/](https://www.invisionapp.com/blog/prototyping-in-sketch/)

I head a chance to test Adobe XD on one ot the recent project. The only thing that I likes is the ease of creating interactive prototypes. It would be cool if we could to it in Sketch! Thanks inVision  it is looking really straight forward.

- - -

## npm v5.0.0

[http://blog.npmjs.org/post/161081169345/v500](http://blog.npmjs.org/post/161081169345/v500)

> Wowowowowow npm@5!

It is a big wow. We were waiting for big update of npm for months. Better performance, offline support out of the box, lockfiles, `--save` keyword as a default `install` command flag, more user friendly log output are just a few big changes in a new manager.

- - -

## What Is Event Bubbling in JavaScript? Event Propagation Explained

[https://www.sitepoint.com/event-bubbling-javascript/](https://www.sitepoint.com/event-bubbling-javascript/)

This subject confused me so much when I started working with DOM for a first time. [Giulio Mainardi](https://twitter.com/mgiulio) did a really amazing job in explaining concept of event propagation, capturing and bubbling. Quick read for all DOM devs.

- - -

##
