_drafts/2017-07-31-top-picks-2017-july.md, before:

---
title: Top picks — 2017 July
excerpt: Staying up to date in web industry is a difficult and time consuming task. I would like to share with you my top finds from the past month.
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## Everything You Ever Wanted To Know About Authentication in Node.js

[https://youtu.be/yvviEA1pOXw](https://youtu.be/yvviEA1pOXw)

Not any new, but very helpful to understand authentication process between the client and node server. [Randall Degges](https://twitter.com/rdegges) explains everything really clearly step by step.

- - -

## If you have a disability, what's the hardest thing about browsing the web?

[https://twitter.com/captainsafia/status/871056480799162368](https://twitter.com/captainsafia/status/871056480799162368)

Very insightful discussion on the twitter under Safia Abdallas tweet. Eye opening comments present that accessibility is a big concern of an internet nowadays. Some [helpful](https://axesslab.com/accessibility-according-to-pwd/) [people](https://hugogiraudel.com/2017/07/02/accessibility-feedback/) summarized this discussion into meaningful categories.

- - -

## The Fullstack Tutorial for GraphQL

[https://www.howtographql.com/](https://www.howtographql.com/)

I'm not a back end developer and I normally don't think about the API design to work nicely with front-end part of a project. Very recently I entered the world of Node.js development seriously and I embraced things like REST API, requests, responses, headers etc. A moment after that I came across this amazing resource about GraphQL. I understand it! It is superb! Can't recommend this series of free tutorials enough.

- - -

## Flash & the future of interactive content

[https://blogs.adobe.com/conversations/2017/07/adobe-flash-update.html](https://blogs.adobe.com/conversations/2017/07/adobe-flash-update.html)

Steve Jobs was right — there is no future for Flash content on the web and Adobe just confirmed that. I took them a while. The official notice provides a date — end of 2020 — when Adobe Flash support will be absolutely discontinued. Companies like [Apple](https://webkit.org/blog/7839/adobe-announces-flash-distribution-and-updates-to-end/), [Facebook](https://developers.facebook.com/blog/post/2017/07/25/Games-Migration-to-Open-Web-Standards/), [Google](https://www.blog.google/products/chrome/saying-goodbye-flash-chrome/), [Microsoft](https://blogs.windows.com/msedgedev/2017/07/25/flash-on-windows-timeline/#YU0hKCkgu6313YzR.97) and [Mozzilla](https://blog.mozilla.org/futurereleases/2017/07/25/firefox-roadmap-flash-end-life/) put few words for their clients too.

## Figma 2.0: Now with Prototyping and Developer Handoff

[https://blog.figma.com/figma-2-0-now-with-prototyping-and-developer-handoff-1b309a5d025c](https://blog.figma.com/figma-2-0-now-with-prototyping-and-developer-handoff-1b309a5d025c)

I heard of [Figma](https://www.figma.com/) for a first time just few months ago and today I came across another big news about this product! The biggest competitor for my beloved [Sketch](https://www.sketchapp.com/) just hit a version 2.0. The development pace of this company is impressive. Brand new prototyping mode is definitely a handy feature having it built into the same tool that we use to design beautiful things. Developer hand-off is a massive time saver (from front end developer perspective). You can watch a quick presentation of both new features on great videos made by [Scott Tolinski](https://twitter.com/stolinski) ([prototype mode](https://youtu.be/ex9rP3SEHW4) and [dev hando-ff](https://youtu.be/tVPHB7gOAGs)). I'm looking forward to play around with new features and you will definitely hear more about it from me shortly.

Commit message:

Custom top picks description for a first time.

_drafts/2017-07-31-top-picks-2017-july.md, after:

---
title: Top picks — 2017 July
excerpt: Node.js authentication, the hardest accessibility issue about browsing the web, GraphQL tutorial, the future of Adobe Flash and brand new Figma with build it prototyping mode.
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## Everything You Ever Wanted To Know About Authentication in Node.js

[https://youtu.be/yvviEA1pOXw](https://youtu.be/yvviEA1pOXw)

Not any new, but very helpful to understand authentication process between the client and node server. [Randall Degges](https://twitter.com/rdegges) explains everything really clearly step by step.

- - -

## If you have a disability, what's the hardest thing about browsing the web?

[https://twitter.com/captainsafia/status/871056480799162368](https://twitter.com/captainsafia/status/871056480799162368)

Very insightful discussion on the twitter under Safia Abdallas tweet. Eye opening comments present that accessibility is a big concern of an internet nowadays. Some [helpful](https://axesslab.com/accessibility-according-to-pwd/) [people](https://hugogiraudel.com/2017/07/02/accessibility-feedback/) summarized this discussion into meaningful categories.

- - -

## The Fullstack Tutorial for GraphQL

[https://www.howtographql.com/](https://www.howtographql.com/)

I'm not a back end developer and I normally don't think about the API design to work nicely with front-end part of a project. Very recently I entered the world of Node.js development seriously and I embraced things like REST API, requests, responses, headers etc. A moment after that I came across this amazing resource about GraphQL. I understand it! It is superb! Can't recommend this series of free tutorials enough.

- - -

## Flash & the future of interactive content

[https://blogs.adobe.com/conversations/2017/07/adobe-flash-update.html](https://blogs.adobe.com/conversations/2017/07/adobe-flash-update.html)

Steve Jobs was right — there is no future for Flash content on the web and Adobe just confirmed that. I took them a while. The official notice provides a date — end of 2020 — when Adobe Flash support will be absolutely discontinued. Companies like [Apple](https://webkit.org/blog/7839/adobe-announces-flash-distribution-and-updates-to-end/), [Facebook](https://developers.facebook.com/blog/post/2017/07/25/Games-Migration-to-Open-Web-Standards/), [Google](https://www.blog.google/products/chrome/saying-goodbye-flash-chrome/), [Microsoft](https://blogs.windows.com/msedgedev/2017/07/25/flash-on-windows-timeline/#YU0hKCkgu6313YzR.97) and [Mozzilla](https://blog.mozilla.org/futurereleases/2017/07/25/firefox-roadmap-flash-end-life/) put few words for their clients too.

## Figma 2.0: Now with Prototyping and Developer Handoff

[https://blog.figma.com/figma-2-0-now-with-prototyping-and-developer-handoff-1b309a5d025c](https://blog.figma.com/figma-2-0-now-with-prototyping-and-developer-handoff-1b309a5d025c)

I heard of [Figma](https://www.figma.com/) for a first time just few months ago and today I came across another big news about this product! The biggest competitor for my beloved [Sketch](https://www.sketchapp.com/) just hit a version 2.0. The development pace of this company is impressive. Brand new prototyping mode is definitely a handy feature having it built into the same tool that we use to design beautiful things. Developer hand-off is a massive time saver (from front end developer perspective). You can watch a quick presentation of both new features on great videos made by [Scott Tolinski](https://twitter.com/stolinski) ([prototype mode](https://youtu.be/ex9rP3SEHW4) and [dev hando-ff](https://youtu.be/tVPHB7gOAGs)). I'm looking forward to play around with new features and you will definitely hear more about it from me shortly.
