_drafts/2018-02-28-top-picks-2018-february.md, before:

---
title: Top picks — 2018 February
excerpt:
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## [BetterExplained](https://betterexplained.com/)

A number of articles that explain complex (more or less) mathematical patterns in a simple words digestible by normal people. When I stumbled upon this website I few solid hours on learning new stuff and refreshing my high school skills.

## [Phase](https://phase.com/)

I still love you Sketch but… Tons of competitive tools are coming out and some of them are looking very promising. [Figma](https://www.figma.com/) succeeded by giving designers a great cross platform alternative that works in a browser. [InVision Studio](https://www.invisionapp.com/studio) that I mention in [one of the previous top picks](https://pawelgrzybek.com/top-picks-2017-october/#studio---the-worlds-most-powerful-screen-design-tool) is another one that is looking very promising just by looking at some of the first things that people [built with it](https://youtu.be/RCf4UQkaubc). With release date around summer 2018, Phase is joining the group of these tools. First promo videos on a website are looking sweet!

## [Jake Archibald: In The Loop](https://youtu.be/cCOL7MC4Pl0)

This is a must-watch! Jake Archibald from Google and absolutely the best explanation of event loop in JavaScript! Essential talk for all JavaScript developers!

##

Commit message:

add debugger explainer video to top picks

_drafts/2018-02-28-top-picks-2018-february.md, after:

---
title: Top picks — 2018 February
excerpt:
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## [BetterExplained](https://betterexplained.com/)

A number of articles that explain complex (more or less) mathematical patterns in a simple words digestible by normal people. When I stumbled upon this website I few solid hours on learning new stuff and refreshing my high school skills.

## [Phase](https://phase.com/)

I still love you Sketch but… Tons of competitive tools are coming out and some of them are looking very promising. [Figma](https://www.figma.com/) succeeded by giving designers a great cross platform alternative that works in a browser. [InVision Studio](https://www.invisionapp.com/studio) that I mention in [one of the previous top picks](https://pawelgrzybek.com/top-picks-2017-october/#studio---the-worlds-most-powerful-screen-design-tool) is another one that is looking very promising just by looking at some of the first things that people [built with it](https://youtu.be/RCf4UQkaubc). With release date around summer 2018, Phase is joining the group of these tools. First promo videos on a website are looking sweet!

## [Jake Archibald: In The Loop](https://youtu.be/cCOL7MC4Pl0)

This is a must-watch! Jake Archibald from Google and absolutely the best explanation of event loop in JavaScript! Essential talk for all JavaScript developers!

## [Getting started with Node.js debugging in VS Code](https://youtu.be/2oFKNL7vYV8)

This eight minutes video explained everything that you have to know to get stared with debugging JavaScript & Node programs in Visual Studio Code. I spent bit amount of time to understand it by reading docs and watching some unofficial YouTube tutorials — this one would be a relief for me back then.
