_drafts/2018-01-31-top-picks-2018-january.md, before:

---
title: Top picks — 2018 January
excerpt: ...
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## Introducing Web Payments: Easier Online Purchases With The Payment Request API

[https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2018/01/online-purchase-payment-request-api/](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2018/01/online-purchase-payment-request-api/)

Peter O'Shaughnessy as a developer advocate in Samsung’s web browser team published a great explanation post for Payment Request API. Few companies use it now and observe a significantly improved user experience. API is promised based, easy to understand and can be as complex or simple as you want.

- - -

## Additive Animation with the Web Animations API

[https://css-tricks.com/additive-animation-web-animations-api/](https://css-tricks.com/additive-animation-web-animations-api/)

The new property added to Web Animation API configuration object — `composite` — allows us to do something that previously was almost impossible to do (technically it was possible but the amount of multidimensional matrix math needed was crazy). Dan Wilson explains the magic behind it, how it calculated and presents all the possible values. Really informative article for animation freaks.

- - -

## Array / Object Explorer

[https://sdras.github.io/object-explorer/](https://sdras.github.io/object-explorer/), [https://sdras.github.io/array-explorer/](https://sdras.github.io/array-explorer/)

[Sarah Drasner](https://twitter.com/sarah_edo) built these incredibly udeful resources to help you find an Array / Object method in no time! Such a useful thingers!

- - -

## Apple Developer Program Membership Fee Waivers Now Available

[https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=01032018a](https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=01032018a)

Apple now offers a free of charge dev accounts for nonprofit organizations, accredited educational institutions, and government entities. 

- - -

## HDR Photography in Microsoft Excel by Kevin Chen

[https://youtu.be/bkQJdaGGVM8](https://youtu.be/bkQJdaGGVM8)

This is probably the most hilarious talk that I have ever watched. Funny but very informative! You can learn a lot about photography, dynamic range, lightning reciprocity and Microsoft products performance.

- - -

## The Rise Of The State Machines

[https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2018/01/rise-state-machines/](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2018/01/rise-state-machines/)

Krasimir Tsonev explains the concept of popular in computer science State Machines. Clear explanation and very well introduced concept on minimal JavaScript example. 

> State machines are good firewalls. They protect us from reaching unknown states because we set boundaries for what can happen and when, without explicitly saying how.

- - -

## What’s New in HTML 5.2?

[https://bitsofco.de/whats-new-in-html-5-2/](https://bitsofco.de/whats-new-in-html-5-2/)

HTML 5.2 just hit a status of W3C Recommendation — perfect time to review whats new in its spec. Ire Aderinokun reviews it all in this short article.

- - -

##

Commit message:

careful now: new to top picks

_drafts/2018-01-31-top-picks-2018-january.md, after:

---
title: Top picks — 2018 January
excerpt: ...
photo: top-picks.jpg
---

## Introducing Web Payments: Easier Online Purchases With The Payment Request API

[https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2018/01/online-purchase-payment-request-api/](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2018/01/online-purchase-payment-request-api/)

Peter O'Shaughnessy as a developer advocate in Samsung’s web browser team published a great explanation post for Payment Request API. Few companies use it now and observe a significantly improved user experience. API is promised based, easy to understand and can be as complex or simple as you want.

- - -

## Additive Animation with the Web Animations API

[https://css-tricks.com/additive-animation-web-animations-api/](https://css-tricks.com/additive-animation-web-animations-api/)

The new property added to Web Animation API configuration object — `composite` — allows us to do something that previously was almost impossible to do (technically it was possible but the amount of multidimensional matrix math needed was crazy). Dan Wilson explains the magic behind it, how it calculated and presents all the possible values. Really informative article for animation freaks.

- - -

## Array / Object Explorer

[https://sdras.github.io/object-explorer/](https://sdras.github.io/object-explorer/), [https://sdras.github.io/array-explorer/](https://sdras.github.io/array-explorer/)

[Sarah Drasner](https://twitter.com/sarah_edo) built these incredibly udeful resources to help you find an Array / Object method in no time! Such a useful thingers!

- - -

## Apple Developer Program Membership Fee Waivers Now Available

[https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=01032018a](https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=01032018a)

Apple now offers a free of charge dev accounts for nonprofit organizations, accredited educational institutions, and government entities. 

- - -

## HDR Photography in Microsoft Excel by Kevin Chen

[https://youtu.be/bkQJdaGGVM8](https://youtu.be/bkQJdaGGVM8)

This is probably the most hilarious talk that I have ever watched. Funny but very informative! You can learn a lot about photography, dynamic range, lightning reciprocity and Microsoft products performance.

- - -

## The Rise Of The State Machines

[https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2018/01/rise-state-machines/](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2018/01/rise-state-machines/)

Krasimir Tsonev explains the concept of popular in computer science State Machines. Clear explanation and very well introduced concept on minimal JavaScript example. 

> State machines are good firewalls. They protect us from reaching unknown states because we set boundaries for what can happen and when, without explicitly saying how.

- - -

## What’s New in HTML 5.2?

[https://bitsofco.de/whats-new-in-html-5-2/](https://bitsofco.de/whats-new-in-html-5-2/)

HTML 5.2 just hit a status of W3C Recommendation — perfect time to review whats new in its spec. Ire Aderinokun reviews it all in this short article.

- - -

## Careful Now

[https://css-tricks.com/careful-now/](https://css-tricks.com/careful-now/)

Chris Coyier shares his thoughts about websites build specifically for Google Chrome. It a a natural continuation of ["Chrome is turning into the new Internet Explorer 6" by Tom Warren](https://www.theverge.com/2018/1/4/16805216/google-chrome-only-sites-internet-explorer-6-web-standards) from the prism of web developer.

- - -

##
