_drafts/rounding-and-truncating-numbers-in-javascript.md, before:

---
title: Rounding and truncating numbers in JavaScript
excerpt: Let's translate out primary school math skills into JavaScript. Let's put together all that we know about rounding and truncating numbers in JavaScript.
photo: 2016-01-19.jpg
---

Rounding and truncating is bread and butter of every single developer. It was covered during first few math lessons in primary school. Hopefully you still remember how it works in world of numbers. Let's use this knowledge and translate it to JavaScript that comes with built-in object called `Math`. As name can suggest, it has collection of properties and methods for mathematical operations on numbers. There is one small difference between `Math` and other built-in global objects. `Math` isn't a constructor which means that all properties and methods that belongs to it are static (needs to be called by using Math as an object).

!!! SCREENSHOOT OF MATH METHODS IN CONSOLE !!!

## Rounding vs Truncating

The difference between these two methods is minor but very important to understand. Booth of them are methods of approximating a number by dropping decimal places. Rounding approximates a number using a nearby number at a given degree of accuracy. It can occur in two directions: up and down. Rounding up approximates a number towards positive infinity. Rounding down towards negative infinity. Truncating approximates without rounding. In other words, it "rounds" towards zero.

```
Rounding
3.14159 ≈ 3.1416

Truncating
3.14159 ≈ 3.1415
```

Hopefully you get the difference. It makes truncating rarely useful in precise calculations (probably JavaScript isn't good choice at all if you need precise calculations) but you can come across situation when it may be irreplaceable. Use case can be dropping decimal places from pixel value to avoid anti aliasing or weird pixel rounding which is completely different across browser engines.

## Rounding numbers in Javascript

Rounding is straight forward. We can round to nearest integer, round down or round up. JavaScript is using three methods to achieve it:

- `Math.round()` - rounds to nearest integer (if fraction is 0.5 or greater - rounds up)
- `Math.floor()` - rounds down
- `Math.ceil()` - rounds up

```
Math.round(3.14159)  // 3
Math.round(3.5)      // 4
Math.floor(3.8)      // 3
Math.ceil(3.2)       // 4
```

Rounding numbers with decimal precision requires using `toFixed()` method that belongs to `Number` prototype.

```
3.14159.toFixed(2);  // 3.14
```

## Truncating numbers in Javascript

`Math.trunc()` simply removes all the fractional digits. It takes one argument which is our number. If the argument is a positive number it behaves exactly the same as `Math.floor()`. For negative numbers it does the same job as `Math.ceil()`.

```
Math.trunc(3.14159);   //  3
Math.trunc(-3.14159);  // -3
```

It's worth to mention that the browser support for `Math.trunc()` isn't great at all. Fortunately clever people came out with [ponyfill](https://www.npmjs.com/package/math-trunc).  Have a look at browser support list:

- Google Chrome >= 38
- Firefox >= 25
- Internet Explorer >= Nope :(
- Opera >= 25
- Safari >= 7.1

### TLTR (too long to read)

I know, I know - time is money. Lets sum it up.

- `Math.round()` - rounds to the nearest integer
- `Math.floor()` - rounds down towards negative infinity
- `Math.ceil()` - rounds up towards positive infinity
- `Math.trunc()` - rounds up or down towards zero

!!! IMAGE WITH TIME AXIS HERE !!!

Commit message:

Fixes typos, grammar, some rephrasing

_drafts/rounding-and-truncating-numbers-in-javascript.md, after:

---
title: Rounding and truncating numbers in JavaScript
excerpt: Let's translate our primary school math skills into JavaScript. Let's put together all that we know about rounding and truncating numbers in JavaScript.
photo: 2016-01-19.jpg
---

Rounding and truncating is a bread and butter action for every single developer. It was covered during your first few math lessons in primary school. Hopefully you still remember how it works in the world of numbers. Let's use this knowledge and translate it to JavaScript using the built-in object called `Math`. As the name can suggests, it has a collection of properties and methods for mathematical operations on numbers. There is one small difference between `Math` and other built-in global objects. `Math` isn't a constructor which means that all properties and methods that belong to it are static (meaning that they need to be called by using Math as an object).

!!! SCREENSHOT OF MATH METHODS IN CONSOLE !!!

## Rounding vs Truncating

The difference between these two methods is minor but very important to understand. Both of them are methods of approximating a number by dropping decimal places. Rounding approximates a number using a nearby number at a given degree of accuracy. It can occur in two directions: up and down. Rounding up approximates a number towards positive infinity. Rounding down towards negative infinity. Truncating approximates without rounding. In other words, it "rounds" towards zero.

```
Rounding
3.14159 ≈ 3.1416

Truncating
3.14159 ≈ 3.1415
```

Hopefully you get the difference. It makes truncating really useful in precise calculations (although JavaScript probably isn't a good choice at all if you need precise calculations) but you can come across a situation when it may be irreplaceable. Once example can be when needing to drop decimal places from a pixel value to avoid anti aliasing or weird pixel rounding which is completely different across browser engines.

## Rounding numbers in Javascript

Rounding is straight forward. We can round to nearest the integer, round down or round up. JavaScript uses three methods to achieve this:

- `Math.round()` - rounds to the nearest integer (if the fraction is 0.5 or greater - rounds up)
- `Math.floor()` - rounds down
- `Math.ceil()` - rounds up

```
Math.round(3.14159)  // 3
Math.round(3.5)      // 4
Math.floor(3.8)      // 3
Math.ceil(3.2)       // 4
```

Rounding numbers with decimal precision requires using the `toFixed()` method that belongs to the `Number` prototype.

```
3.14159.toFixed(2);  // 3.14
```

## Truncating numbers in Javascript

`Math.trunc()` simply removes all the fractional digits. It takes one argument which is a number. If the argument is a positive number it behaves exactly the same as `Math.floor()`. For negative numbers it does the same job as `Math.ceil()`.

```
Math.trunc(3.14159);   //  3
Math.trunc(-3.14159);  // -3
```

It's worth mentioning that the browser support for `Math.trunc()` isn't great. Fortunately some clever people came out with a [polyfill](https://www.npmjs.com/package/math-trunc).  Have a look at the browser support list:

- Google Chrome >= 38
- Firefox >= 25
- Internet Explorer >= Nope :(
- Opera >= 25
- Safari >= 7.1

### TLTR (too long to read)

I know, I know - time is money. Lets sum it up.

- `Math.round()` - rounds to the nearest integer
- `Math.floor()` - rounds down towards negative infinity
- `Math.ceil()` - rounds up towards positive infinity
- `Math.trunc()` - rounds up or down towards zero

!!! IMAGE WITH TIME AXIS HERE !!!
